---
title: "Top predators in marine ecosystem, their response to ocean spatio-temporal variability"
collection: research
type: "Research"
permalink: /research/2016_PhD
dates: 2013--2016
location: "La Rochelle, France"
---

**Research team**: CEBC UMR 7372 La rochelle Université - CNRS

**Dates**: 2013--2016

**Supervisor**: Prof. Vincent Ridoux

Marine ecosystem is hard to study and several gaps remain in our understanding of cetaceans and seabirds, particularly regarding their at-sea distributions. The pelagic
ecosystem is characterised by an important spatiotemporal variability, thanks to the space and time dynamics of its constituting ecological processes. Top predators thus have to
anticipate this variability to sustain themselves in the ecosystem. Based on large-scale surveys across waters of the English Channel, Bay of Biscay and north-western Mediterranean
Sea, this thesis aimed at improving knowledge regarding the distribution of cetaceans and seabirds in the area, and to explore the impact of ocean spatiotemporal variability on their
ecology. This work focused on two temporal scales, the seasonal and interannual variability. We first explored the variations of habitat preferences of studied species at these two
temporal scales. Cetaceans and seabirds being long-lived species characterised by long learning periods in their early life, the response to seasonality was investigated according
to age and experience in northern gannets, the most abundant seabird species in the area. Finally, the predator-prey association within the Bay of Biscay was also explored, by
contrasting prey accessibility in terms of size and depth. The implications of this work regarding the ecology of marine top predators, as well as their conservation, are finally
discussed. 

*Keywords*: Ecological niche, marine environment, spatiotemporal heterogeneity, cetaceans, seabirds, Bay of Biscay, English Channel, Mediterranean Sea, habitat modelling

The complete thesis manuscript can be found [here](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/309634946_Top_predators_in_marine_ecosystem_their_response_to_ocean_spatio-temporal_variability).

